{\rtf1\ansi \deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern Courier;}{\f1\froman Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Helv;}
{\f3\froman Times New Roman;}{\f4\fswiss Arial;}{\f5\froman CG Times (WN);}{\f6\fswiss Univers 
(WN);}{\f7\froman Roman;}{\f8\fmodern Modern;}{\f9\fscript Script;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\stylesheet{\s244 \f5\fs16\up6 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245 \f5\fs20 
\sbasedon0\snext245 footnote text;}{\f5\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}}{\info{\title STOPBUSHELP}
{\author Martin Davidson}{\operator Martin Davidson}{\creatim\yr1994\mo4\dy10\hr13\min30}
{\revtim\yr1994\mo4\dy10\hr13\min32}{\version1}{\edmins1}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords65536}
{\nofchars65536}{\vern8368}}\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \f5\fs20 
{\plain \f5\up6 

#{\footnote main_contents}${\footnote Contents}K{\footnote Contents}}
\pard\keepn
\f4\fs8\par
\f4\fs36\b{\{bml mainicon.bmp\}} Contents\par
\f4\fs8\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
Stop the Bus is a card game which combines luck and skill. You are
 pitted against three computer players who are determined to win. Your
 job is to stop them.\par
\par
You need a mouse to play Stop the Bus.\par
\par
To learn how to use Help, press F1, or choose How to Use Help from the Help menu.\par
\par
\b\f4\fs24 Overviews\par\plain\uldb\f4\fs20
\par 
About Stop the Bus\plain\uldb\v about\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Shareware\plain\uldb\v share\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Legal information\plain\uldb\v legal\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Program history\plain\uldb\v history\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\par
\b\f4\fs24 The game\par\plain\uldb\f4\fs20
\par 
Rules of the game\plain\uldb\v rules\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Scoring\plain\uldb\v scores\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Location of controls\plain\uldb\v controls\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\par
\par
\b\f4\fs24 How to...\par \plain \uldb\f4\fs20
\par
Play the game\plain\uldb\v play\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Set game options\plain\uldb\v options\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Cheat\plain\uldb\v cheat\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page 

#{\footnote about}${\footnote About Stop the Bus}
K{\footnote About Stop the Bus}+{\footnote Thegame:01}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b About Stop the Bus\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
The author\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
Stop the Bus is a card game which I originally wrote last summer term
 when I was in second year. Since then it has been debugged a bit and
 has now been dragged out again as a "release" from revison for Finals.
 I am presently working on a version of Estimation Whist and there are
 one or two other things started but not finished. If you want more
 information you can write to me at:\par
\par
\tab Martin Davidson\par
\tab Hertford College\par
\tab OXFORD\par
\tab OX1 3BW\par
\tab United Kingdom\par
\par
or you contact me via the internet:\par
\par
\tab u91mgd@uk.ac.oxford.ecs  OR\par
\tab u91mgd@ecs.ox.ac.uk
\par
All of these addresses will be good until at least July 1995 when I graduate.
 After that who knows???\par
\par
The following four files make up the archive\f4\fs18  STOPBUS.ZIP\f4\fs20 :\par
\par\f4\fs18
\tab  STOPBUS.EXE\par
\tab  STOPBUS.HLP\par
\tab  STOPBUS.TXT\par
\tab  CTL3D.DLL\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
About this help file\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
This help file is for version 1.11 of the Stop the Bus program\f4\fs18
  (STOPBUS.EXE)\f4\fs20  which was released on the 9th of May 1994. If the
 version of Stop the Bus that you are using is not version 1.1
 then the information in this help file may be incorrect.\par
\par
To check the version of the Stop the Bus program select
\f4\fs18  HELP|ABOUT\f4\fs20  from the main menu.\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Credits\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
\tx1000\li1000\fi-1000
{\b Testers:}
\tab Ross, Eric, Matthew and Heather. I am thankful to all of you for providing
 constructive criticism (i.e. pointing out silly mistakes).\par
\par
{\b Solitaire:}
\tab For an idea for an icon. (and London Transport as well.)\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
Shareware\plain\uldb\v share\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Legal information\plain\uldb\v legal\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Program history\plain\uldb\v history\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote share}${\footnote Shareware}
K{\footnote Shareware}+{\footnote Thegame:02}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Shareware\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Shareware\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
If you like this program and use it regularily then please send \'A35 (UK
 Sterling) or $10 (US dollars, cash only) to:\par
\par
\tab Martin Davidson\par
\tab Hertford College\par
\tab OXFORD\par
\tab OX1 3BW\par
\tab United Kingdom\par
\par
{\b NOTE:} Please do not send cheques drawn on a non UK bank.\par
\par
This is because it costs more than $10 to cash them! Thanks.\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
About Stop the Bus\plain\uldb\v about\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Shareware\plain\uldb\v share\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Legal information\plain\uldb\v legal\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Program history\plain\uldb\v history\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote legal}${\footnote Legal information}
K{\footnote Legal information}+{\footnote Thegame:03}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Legal information\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Copyright\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
Stop the Bus is copyright \'A9 Martin G Davidson 1994. All rights
 reserved.\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Disclaimer of Warranty\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF
 ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO
 THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
 FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE
 QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE IS WITH YOU. THE AUTHOR
 ASSUMES NO LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES, DIRECT OR
 CONSEQUENTIAL, WHICH MAY RESULT FROM THE USE OF THIS
 SOFTWARE.\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
About Stop the Bus\plain\uldb\v about\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Shareware\plain\uldb\v share\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Program history\plain\uldb\v history\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote history}${\footnote Program history}
K{\footnote Program history}+{\footnote Thegame:04}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Program history\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par
Version 1.0 of the Stop the Bus program was written in Turbo Pascal for Windows
 during the first half of 1993 and released on the 12th of June 1993.\par
\par
Version 1.01 changed the handling of a score of 31. Previously only the
 player with the lowest score lost a life: under the modified scoring
 scheme all players except the one with a score of 31 lost a life. This
 version was released on the 22nd of June 1993.\par
\par
Version 1.02 corrected a minor bug related to the saving of the stack
 cheat window. The program was also modified to potentially use Borland's
 custom controls although they were not used in this release. It was
 released on the 20th August 1993.\par
\par
Version 1.1 modified the menu bar and introduced an \b\i options\plain\f4\fs20  dialog
 to replace the old menu selections. It also used Microsoft's 3D custom control
 library, CTL3D to draw all the dialog and message boxes.
 This version was released on the 1st of May 1994.\par
\par
Version 1.11, this version, includes CTL3D within the ZIP file and
 slightly improves the screen display. It was released on the 9th of
 May 1994.\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
About Stop the Bus\plain\uldb\v about\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Shareware\plain\uldb\v share\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Legal information\plain\uldb\v legal\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page



#{\footnote rules}${\footnote Rules of the game}
K{\footnote Rules of the game}+{\footnote Overviews:01}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Rules of the game\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Rules\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
You intially start with three lives per player.\par
\par
On each turn you may either:\par
\par
\tx360\li360\fi-360
{\f1\'B7}
\tab Swap one of your three cards with the face up card on the deck.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab Take the next card from the deck. You may then either swap it with one of the three cards
 in your hand, or return it, face up, to the deck.\par
\pard
\par
Control then passes to the next player. \par
\par
If at any time your score is 31, you are deemed to have\b\i  Stopped the bus\plain\f4\fs20 .
 The game stops at that point and all other players lose a life. If any player now has
 no lives left then that player is eliminated from the game.\par
\par
You may also\b\i  stick\plain\f4\fs20  if you consider your score to be high enough.
 If you decide to do so, you must not swap any cards or take the next card from
 the deck. Play continues until the player immediately preceeding you. At the
 end of that player's go, the game stops and scores are calculated. As before
 the player with the lowest score loses a life. Likewise if this player
 now has no lives left then the palyer is eliminated from the game.\par
\par
The winner is the player who still has at least one life remaining after all the other
 players have been eliminated. \par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Note:\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
If the lowest score is shared by several players, then they all lose a live.\par
If this happens and results in a situation where every player has no lives left, then
 the result of the game is considered a draw.\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Implementation\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
This implementation automatically prevents any player breaking the rules. For example
 it is not possible to stick after you have swapped a card with the deck. However if
 you have \i not \plain\f4\fs20 turned over the next card on the deck
 you can swap the cards back and then stick. It is not possible to do this once you
 have turned over the next card on the deck.\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
Scoring\plain\uldb\v scores\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Location of controls\plain\uldb\v controls\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote scores}${\footnote Scoring}
K{\footnote Scoring}+{\footnote Overviews:02}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Scoring\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par
Cards are scored in the following way:\par
\par
\tx360\li360\fi-360
{\f1\'B7}
\tab Ace = 11 points\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab King, Queen, Jack, 10 = 10 points\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab Any other card = points equal to its value\par
\pard
\par 
\par
It is only possible to add cards of the same suit together when calculating your
 score. The aim of the game is to get as high a score as possible, with the maximum
 possible being 31.\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
Rules of the game\plain\uldb\v rules\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Location of controls\plain\uldb\v controls\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote controls}${\footnote Location of controls}
K{\footnote Location of controls}+{\footnote Overviews:03}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Location of controls\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par
Stop the Bus has four game areas as shown in the picture below. Click on any part of the
 window for more information:\par
\par
{\{bml mainwin.shg\}}\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
Rules of the game\plain\uldb\v rules\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Scoring\plain\uldb\v scores\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote mw_area1}
{\f4\fs24\b Title}\f4\fs20\par
\par
This is the main window title.
\page

#{\footnote mw_area2}
{\f4\fs24\b Menu bar}\f4\fs20\par
\par
This is the main window menu bar.
\page

#{\footnote mw_area3}
{\f4\fs24\b Main deck of cards}\f4\fs20\par
\par
This is the main deck of cards. Click on the card back to turn over the
 next card. It will then be shown overturned in the pile of cards.\par
\page

#{\footnote mw_area4}
{\f4\fs24\b Your hand of cards}\f4\fs20\par
\par
This is your hand of three cards. Click on any card to swap it with the
 card which is face up on the \ul main deck of cards\v
mw_area3\plain\f4\fs20 .
\page

#{\footnote mw_area5}
{\f4\fs24\b Player information}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Information regarding the number of remaining lives and whose turn it is to play is
 shown here.
\page

#{\footnote mw_area6}
{\f4\fs24\b Game control buttons}\f4\fs20\par
\par
The four buttons displayed here are used to control the game. The four
buttons have the following fucntions:\par
\par
\tx360\li360\fi-360
{\b Stick}
\tab is used to\i  stick\plain\f4\fs20 .\par
{\b Deal}
\tab starts a new game.\par
{\b OK    }
\tab is used to pass control to the next player.\par
{\b Exit}
\tab exits the program.\par
\pard
\page


#{\footnote play}${\footnote Playing the game}
K{\footnote Playing the game}+{\footnote Howto:01}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Playing the game\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
This version\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
In this version of Stop the Bus you are pitted against three computer players, who play
 to a reasonable standard, and fairly quickly as well.\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
General\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
\tx360\li360\fi-360
{\f1\'B7}
\tab To play (or restart) the game, either press the\b  Deal\plain\f4\fs20  button
 or choose\f4\fs18  GAME|DEAL\plain\f4\fs20 .\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab To swap a card with the stack, click on then card you want to swap. \par 
{\f1\'B7}
\tab To get the next card from the deck, click on the deck. \par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab To stick, press the \b Stick \plain\f4\fs20 button. If it is disabled then
 you cannot stick at that point.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab If you are happy with your cards press the\b  OK\plain\f4\fs20  button. The
 next player to play will then take over.\par
\pard
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Note:\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
If you lose all your lives before the computer players do, then they will continue
 playing, until either someone wins or the game is drawn.\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain\uldb\v main_contents\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Play the game\plain\uldb\v play\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Set game options\plain\uldb\v options\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Cheat\plain\uldb\v cheat\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote options}${\footnote Setting game options}
K{\footnote Setting game options}+{\footnote Howto:02}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Setting game options\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par
The\b  options\plain\f4\fs20  dialog can be displayed by
 selecting\f4\fs18  GAME|OPTIONS...\f4\fs20  from the main
 menu.\par
\par
The dialog shows various information: click on any part of the window
 below for more information.\par
\par
{\{bml optnwin.shg\}}\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain\uldb\v main_contents\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Play the game\plain\uldb\v play\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Cheat\plain\uldb\v cheat\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote op_area1}
{\f4\fs24\b Cheat options}\f4\fs20\par
\par
The four buttons displayed here are used to control the game and have the following
 functions:\par
\par
\tx1480\li1480\fi-1480
{\b Card window}
\tab displays a window containing the other three players' cards.\par
{\b Stack window}
\tab displays a window containing the next four cards in the stack.\par
{\b Score window}
\tab displays a window containing all four players' scores.\par
\pard
\page

#{\footnote op_area2}
{\f4\fs24\b Save on exit}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Select this check box to save all user selectable options and main
 window position when you close Stop the Bus. The next
 time you run Stop the Bus all these options will be automatically
 restored.
\page


#{\footnote cheat}${\footnote Cheating}
K{\footnote Cheating}+{\footnote Howto:03}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Cheating\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Ways to cheat\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
There are three ways to cheat when playing Stop the Bus. With all three options
 enabled it is possible to see the cards of your opponents, the next four cards
 in the deck and your current scores. To select an option
 choose\f4\fs18  GAME|OPTIONS...\plain\f4\fs20  from the main menu.
 The \uldb options dialog\v options\plain\f4\fs20  will be
 displayed. To choose a cheat option simply select the check box
 corresponding to the required option. The following illustrations
 depict the three different cheat windows available.\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Cards cheat window\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
{\{bml cardwind.bmp\}}\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Stack cheat window\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
{\{bml stacwind.bmp\}}\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Scores cheat window\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
{\{bml scorwind.bmp\}}\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain\uldb\v main_contents\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Play the game\plain\uldb\v play\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Set game options\plain\uldb\v options\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page


#{\footnote okbut}
{\f4\fs24\b OK button}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Click on this button to close this dialog and update any changes you
 have made.
\page

#{\footnote Cancelbut}
{\f4\fs24\b Cancel button}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Click on this button to close this dialog and ignore any changes you
 have made.
\page

#{\footnote helpbut}
{\f4\fs24\b Help button}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Click on this button to display context sensitive help related to this
 dialog.
\page


}


